# Paper_Products_Warehouse_PythonSim

A small warehouse supplies paper products. Trucks pull up to the loading bays, the driver places an order and waits for the order to be gathered by the warehouse worker with a forklift truck. There are currently 4 loading bays, and when they are full, trucks wait in the parking lot next to the warehouse.

The warehouse is open from 7 AM to 4 PM. Trucks arrive throughout the day. The warehouse has two forklift drivers who pick up orders one at a time, one driver per truck, on a first-come-first-served basis. The drivers load their own orders after the entire order is picked (for safety reasons) and then leave the loading dock. As soon as the forklift driver has picked up the order for a truck, then they are free to start on another truck if there is one waiting in a loading bay (they do not have to wait for the driver to load the order).

The warehouse company is interested in how much improvement in efficiency they could obtain from three changes: (a) adding another forklift and driver; (b) adding another loading bay; or (c) doing both (a) and (b). The least expensive option is (a), but they might be willing to do (b) or (c) if there is enough value. “Efficiency” will be measured in terms of the daily mean number of trucks waiting in the parking lot, mean time a truck spends waiting in the parking lot, mean time a truck waits for a forklift after entering a loading bay, utilization of the bays and the forklifts, and the mean number of trucks still in the parking lot at 4 PM (trucks that arrive before 4 PM will be served, so having a large number of trucks waiting at 4 PM implies that the company will have to pay a great deal of overtime).

Trucks arrive according to a Poisson arrival process with mean time between arrivals of 18 minutes. The time to pick up orders by the forklift drivers is modeled as Erlang with mean 40 minutes and 4 phases; the time for a driver to load the order is modeled as Erlang with mean 12 minutes and 3 phases.
